All right.
Let's do this.
Let's implement Thompson sampling.
So we already initialize you know the main parameters which are part of the common framework between
Thompson sampling and UCB.
So this is n the total number of rounds or the total number of users to whom we're gonna show successively
the ads.
And then we have the number of ads which is 10 here we're dealing with 10 different designs of ads which
we are experimenting to figure out which one has the highest conversion rate.
And then we have this list which is initialized as an empty list but which will be populated over the
rounds with different ads that we select.
So at the end it will contain all the different ads that were selected at each round.
And now now what we're about to code is specific to Thompson sampling.
So there we go.
We're going to start with the first step.
Step one which says that at each round n we actually consider two numbers for each ad I and I won and
which is a number of times to add I got we were won up to round n and and I 0 n number of times the
ad I got rewards 0 up to round then.
So basically what we have to do in this step one is create two variables here for these two numbers.
And we have to initialize them of course as 0 0 4 both because of course before we begin in the first
round.
Well these two numbers are equal to zero because the ad didn't get any reward at all.
So that's what I would like you to do.
And since you know these numbers are for each ad I.
Well what we're going to do is we will create a list of 10 elements where each element is indeed this
number for each of the ads.
Right.
And same for this one.
So now your turn please press buzz on the video and create two variables which will initialize these
two lists of numbers and you can call these two lists first for this one you can call it number as a
reward one with on this course and for this one you can call it numbers of rewards zero.
OK.
So please press pause and I'll give you the solution in a second.
OK good.
Let's do this together.
So as we said we want to introduce two new variables which will be two lists.
First for the numbers of times each ad gets the reward one.
And we're going to call that numbers of rewards 1.
All right.
And as we said we want to initialize it as a list of 10 elements.
And all these elements should be initialized to 0.
Because at the beginning no ad got any reward.
Right.
And remember the trick to initialize a list of 10 zeros it is to put a zero here in square brackets
and then multiply this by G.
OK.
And then very simply for the other list you know corresponding to these numbers.
Well same we're going to call that numbers of reward not one but zero.
And same we initialize it as a list of 10 zeros.
And over the rounds the elements of these lists will be populated for this one as soon as an ad receives
a reward.
One in which case we increment the element corresponding to the ad by one.
And same for this one each time an ad gets a reward rewards zero.
We increment the element corresponding to this ad in the list.
OK.
Very simply and that's the two parameters specific to Thompson simply.
So if you've got this too.
Well congratulations you just implemented step 1.
All right.
So now according to you what do we have to do.
Well not yet.
The big four loop remember that we also want to keep the accumulated reward that we well you know accumulate
over time.
And we're going to introduce the same variable as in UCB you know could have even kept it in a framework.
But remember that variable is total reward.
So here we introduce the same new variable which of course we initialize still to zero.
And now now we can start the for loop.
You know that main for loop which will iterate through all the 10000 rounds in each.
We will show an ad to a user which will decide to click yes or no on the ad.
And so there we go.
Let's stop this loop so it's exactly the same as in the UCB.
We start with four.
Then we choose and for the iterative variable because same and represents the rounds and then and we'll
go in the range from same zero because indexes in both and start from zero up to n right the total number
of rounds or the total number of customers or users to whom we show successively theat and then colon.
And there we go.
Here we are inside this big first for loop.
All right.
So according to you what will be the first step here.
You know there is a second full loop coming up.
It is the follow that will iterate through the different ads.
But before this we need to introduce a new variable which we already did in the UCB Ed. remember we
need to introduce that variable which will be the ad that we select at each front end and as in the
UCB implementation we will introduce that variable as ad right.
Ad which will be the index of the ad that will be selected at each round.
And we initialize this to zero because you know we're gonna have that second for loop that will iterate
through different ads starting from zero up to the last one of index nine.
Okay then let's have a look at the algorithm and let's see if we need to introduce a new variable you
know before we start this second for loop.
I remind that you know for UCB we indeed had to introduce a new variable here which was Max or about
you know we introduced Max Appelbaum and initialized it to zero before we started the second loop.
Okay.
So here that's kind of the same.
Let's see if we have to introduce a new variable other than add 1 before starting the second for loop.
And well you know when we have a look at step three here we see that indeed we select the add that has
the highest of these random draws you know taken from the beta distributions and therefore there is
still a maximum value to consider here.
And that's exactly what we will introduce as a new variable just before starting this second loop that
new variable will be exactly that maximum of the random draws.
And we're going to call it Max underscore random okay Max random which we will initialize of course
to zero.
And now now we can start the second for loop.
All right so let's do this try to do it faster than me.
You know exactly how to do it.
We start with four.
Then you know the iterated variable will still be I.
Which will iterate through the different ads from 0 to 9 because they're the indexes.
So for I in the range from indeed 0 to well deep because we had the divide both for the number of ads
and then column and there we go now is the time we implement the next step in the Thompson sampling
algorithm.
I'm talking of course about step two where for each ad I.
Well that's exactly what this second full loop is about you know it will implement Step Two for each
of the ad I from zero to 9.
And so for each of these ads we take a random draw from the beta distribution given below of parameters
and I N plus 1 where n n is of course number of times that I got we were one of to run n and the second
parameter and I 0 and plus 1 were and I 0 n is of course a number of times to add I got we were 0 up
to round n.
So that means you can totally implement the Step 2 on your own because you have all the parameters right.
We already introduced these two new variables.
We initialize them the right way.
And so now you can totally implement Step 2 on your own.
Before we do it together I will just give you a hint.
Unless you don't want to listen to it and look into the documentation online which is even better.
But I'll give you that hint anyway.
The way to get the random draw from a better distribution of these parameters is given by a certain
function of well this random library which we by the way already imported in our implementation that
random library while this random library contains a certain function which can give you exactly what
you want here meaning a random draw from the beta distribution of any parameters.
And that function is called Beta variant in one word BTC a V A r i ATP.
Okay.
So that's the function.
That's all I'm going to tell you.
And so now you can really implement this step two on your own so please press bus on this video and
will implement a solution together in a few seconds.
All right.
Are you ready.
I hope you got it correct.
Really there is no trap so it should be totally fine but let's do this.
So here we are at the beginning of the second full loop iterating through the different ad and so what
we have to do is collect for each of these.
At this particular number taken as a random draw of this beta distribution called with these parameters.
So let's do this.
First we're going to introduce a new variable which will be exactly that random draw.
And we're gonna call it random underscore theta.
So that's exactly the random draw.
Taken from the beta distribution of these two parameters so random beta and then as I told you the way
to get the random draw from the beta distribution of certain parameters.
Well we first need to call the random library from which we're going to call the beta variant function.
All right.
That's the function.
And inside this function well of course we input these two parameters.
And I N plus 1 and i n 0 plus 1.
And since right now we're dealing with a specific add you know the ADD I.
In the second for loop so it start from zero and then goes to 1 2 3 etc. up to 9.
Well these two parameters that we have to enter are for this specific ad I meaning for the specific
index i in these two numbers and I want end an icy ruin.
Okay.
And therefore the way to get these two numbers is by calling our list of numbers of rewards one in the
number of times each ad and especially are at I we're dealing with right now got the reward one.
So we take this list we pasted inside this beta void function as the first parameter.
And then of course we take the index I write because we're dealing right now with this specific had
I in this second for loop and then forget the plus one and then same for the second parameter that's
going to be the number of times this particular ad I we're dealing with right now in the second loop
has received the reward zero.
So here I'm basing that but I don't forget to take the index I have this at I.
And then of course I add plus 1.
Okay.
And that's it that's all you had to do for this.
Step two.
So you see it's actually a bit simpler than the UCB algorithm but now I trust that you're going to use
the same right trick to implement Step Three because indeed in his step three we have to select the
add that has the highest of these random draws.
You know we took 10 successive random draws for each of these add but inside the same for loop that
is iterating through the add we need to use a trick to keep in memory the highest of these random draws.
And at the end of the full loop we'll get the final highest of these random draws.
So the trick that you have to use is exactly the same as in UCB you're going to use of course this variable
Max random which we introduced and initialized to zero right before this second for loop and you're
going to use it to keep in memory over this second for loop Well the maximum of these random draws.
So that's the new exercise for you your new exercise is basically to implement step three with that
same trick we already learned in the UCB implementation and now see you in the next material to implement
the solution with you.
And until then enjoy machine learning.